Research:
Offered in Batch 2023-24
Highest Package Offered
Highest Package Offered
Firmly established as a rapidly rising hub of excellence for innovation and entrepreneurship, Chandigarh University actively nurtures and empowers handpicked creative ideas across diverse fields, transforming them into valuable and viable business opportunities.
A beacon of innovation & education, CU fosters research, experiential learning, and industry ties for students' future success. With substantial funding, 50 research groups, 30 advanced labs, and numerous patents, CU sets remarkable standards in academia & research.
Approved by
The range of research activities at Chandigarh University is wide-ranging and profound. University scholars conduct research in practically every domain, and pursue to develop human knowledge through investigation, invention, and understanding. Chandigarh University is recognized by SIRO (Scientific and Industrial Research Organization).
Chandigarh University research is strengthened by additional 52 Crore of funded research by the government bodies and corporates. The research is conceded at both in the department itself and at University Centre for Research & Development and at the 60 Research centers within the campus. Chandigarh University Research fraternity includes teaching staff members, scholars, postgraduate and undergraduate student & international scholars. The university has tie ups with the prominent national and international institutions for joint research and guidance. University is also focusing on the innovation and patents. The innovation and entrepreneurship activities is carried out at Chandigarh University Technology Business Incubator.
Technology Business Incubator is an innovative platform offering mentorship and financial support to passionate individuals aspiring to be entrepreneurs. TBI is accelerating the development of young entrepreneurial start-ups from early to mid-stage entrepreneurial development. Chandigarh University filed 2400+ Patents, which is second highest number of patent filed by any institution/organization in India.
Chandigarh University has successfully filed 2613 patents within the span of just 10 years since its establishment.
Chandigarh University is the first university in India to run real-time ground station operations from the KCCRSST.
Chandigarh University introduces 'CUSAT,' North India's premier Student Satellite Designing and Training program, marking its pioneering step in advanced aerospace engineering education.
Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated the Kalpana Chawla Centre for Research in Space Science and Technology (KCCRSST) at Chandigarh University on January 3, 2022.
India's four astronaut-designates for the Gaganyaan mission undergo rigorous training at ISRO's crew training facility, covering simulators, microgravity familiarization, survival, flying practice, and Yoga sessions.
On February 28th, 2024, Prime Minister Narendra Modi marked National Science Day by highlighting the government's commitment to fostering research and innovation among youth.
Chandigarh University Research for a better world
At a time when rape cases are increasing at an alarming rate, a group of students from Chandigarh University have invented a device for women's safety. The students have invented.
A university student in Chandigarh invented an application-based battery-operated cycle for the students living in hostel to travel to their classes. Bicycle spot can be traced through.
Chandigarh University NH-05 Chandigarh-Ludhiana Highway, Mohali, Punjab (INDIA)
Chandigarh University, Panjab (CU) is the Best University in
                            Punjab and North India that offers various Undergraduate and Post graduate Courses like B.Tech, BCA, BBA, HMCT, B.Com, LLB, B.Arch, MBA, M.Tech, B.Com, M.Com, Journalism and MCA at an affordable fees in Chandigarh, India. Apply Now at India's Best Private University in Punjab, Chandigarh which provides top placements.
© All rights reserved 2024
Grab The Golden Opportunity To Avail of Upto Scholarship Worth Rs. 170 Cr.

Patents:
2400+ patents filed / 1900+ patents published
Chandigarh University houses various multifaceted Labs that gives our entrepreneurs a platform to work with ease of technology.
Patents
Published
Investors
Technology Transfers 
Chandigarh University organizes an annual 3 month long innovation conclave to inculcate the spirit of innovation amongst students in their respective academic fields. With the motto of 'Learn to Invent' this conclave offers a unique platform where students indulge in idea generation to execution for prototyping/product creation. 
                                

                                Best Innovative Project Awards are bestowed to youth amongst all participants as a mark of recognition on contribution towards research and innovation.
Opportunity to incubate at CU-TBI
Seed Money
Investors
Showcase your business idea in front of private & national banks
Chandigarh University focuses and promotes the culture of 'Creating Jobs', it stimulates and nurtures inquisitive minds to shape their ideas in actual businesses.
Chandigarh University is a full-fledged university established by the Punjab State Legislature and is recognized by University Grants Commission under Section 2(f) with the right to confer degrees as per Section 22(1) of the UGC Act, 1956.
Chandigarh UniversityNH-95 Chandigarh-Ludhiana Highway,Mohali, Punjab (INDIA)
© All rights reserved 2019-20

Centers
                                                                Of Research:
CU's own Satellite Ground Station & Centre for Innovation & Research 
The establishment of Kalpana Chawla Center for Research in Space Science & Technology is a pivotal milestone for the students of Chandigarh University towards building new intellectual capabilities and strengthening our country's knowledge infrastructure and communication efficacy through the exploration of new frontiers in Space Science and Technology.
Chandigarh University aims to provide the best learning and growing opportunities to young and innovative minds with a platform where they can carve a niche for themselves. The state-of-the-art Center is an initiative to generate curiosity and inspiration in young minds for research on the future of humankind and will assist students to dive deeper into the knowledge of space science and elevate the space research technology of the country, developing national capacity in Enabling Technologies and promoting youth participation in space-related activities.
Opportunity to incubate at CU-TBI
Seed Money
Investors
Showcase your business idea in front of private & national banks
Chandigarh University focuses and promotes the culture of 'Creating Jobs', it stimulates and nurtures inquisitive minds to shape their ideas in actual businesses.
Chandigarh University is a full-fledged university established by the Punjab State Legislature and is recognized by University Grants Commission under Section 2(f) with the right to confer degrees as per Section 22(1) of the UGC Act, 1956.
Chandigarh UniversityNH-95 Chandigarh-Ludhiana Highway,Mohali, Punjab (INDIA)
© All rights reserved 2019-20

Centers
                                                                of Excellence:
Offered in Batch 2023-24
Highest Package Offered
Highest Package Offered
Chandigarh University has International Research Network with 250+ Universities in 60+ Countries’ in various fields such as Engineering, Hospitality, Management & Sciences. CU is playing a pro-active role in transforming and constantly elevating the learning process by involving as major stakeholder.
To keep abreast with the global needs and changing market demands, we have cultivated synergistic alliance with reputed multinational companies to implement an industry-relevant curriculum, based on research and linked to global market outcomes.
                                    These strategic partnerships encourage continuous professional learning and provide opportunities for our students to meet and engage with top organizations and industry leaders, to enhance student's educational experience. CU is playing a pro-active role in transforming and constantly elevating the learning process.
Chandigarh University boasts of a unique corporate advisory board, which consists of more than 150 senior functionaries such as VP's, MD's, and Directors of leading multinational corporations. The board meets regularly with our management and faculty members for strategic planning, quality assurance and make sure that our programs and teaching processes remain relevant and in-line with the industry's demands.

                                                                Our CAB consist members of leading national and international corporations such as Microsoft, Accenture, Google, Hitachi, IBM, Grail Research, HP, Sapient, Samsung Engineering, HCL, VE Commercial Vehicles and many more.
                                                            
Corporate Mentoring benefit you much more than you think. It provides critical mentoring to the students straight from the corporate leaders that help them determine their long-term career goals, while exposing to the world-of- work and professional opportunities occurring in the market. At CU, you will relate to the world-class leaders who will acquaint you with the episode playing in the highly volatile industry. Emphasis is placed on ensuring that university often organizes corporate mentoring programs for all the departments to extend the learning experience into areas that are beyond the walls of the classroom.
Practical learning has multiple, proven benefits in the all-round development of the students. It imparts students with the realistic skills and offers the opportunity to learn from the industry leaders. Chandigarh University believes in providing practical exposure to the students through Guest Lectures, Workshops, Seminars and Expert Lectures by prominent professionals, great leaders, and inspiring personalities. The University manages to bring eminent personalities from diverse disciplines like Politics, Industry, Media, Sports, Entrepreneurship, Bureaucracy and more to the campus and helps students expand on their skills.
In our pursuit to bridge gap between academia and industry, CU has tied-up with leading Multinational corporate to setup multifaceted industry sponsored infrastructure. These research centers play a crucial role in elevating the capabilities of our students and faculty members through various training activities.
Innovation center responsible for developing Solution for Agriculture based problem for implementation on national and international level, Development of autonomous vehicle, R&D in the use of AI in Health.. 
Innovation center provides Joint Research and training facilities to students. 
North India's 1st Innovation center provides world class resources and support for students, entrepreneurs, and startups, accelerating the creation of new companies, jobs and growth of the local software ecosystem. Microsoft Innovation Center offers a comprehensive set of programs and services to foster innovation and growth sustainable local software economies to students. 
Chandigarh University and Microsoft - Global Technical Support Center (GTSC), India joined hands to groom and hire final semester students of Chandigarh University to go through a packed technical and overall readiness program for 4 months, both through classroom training and mentoring. This trainee program builds abilities and helps nurture a career in technology by providing challenging situations in various environments. Upon successful completion of the training, trainees are selected as Support Engineers and Partner Technical consultant.
CCNA - trains students to design, build, and maintain complex computer networks. An e-learning model that delivers web based educational content, online testing, student performance tracking, hands-on labs, and instructor training and support. At the end of the course, students are prepared for globally recognized industry standard certifications like the Cisco Certified Entry Networking Technician (CCENT), Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) and Cisco Certified Network Professional (CCNP). Using this program, we can prepare graduates for the demands and opportunities of the New Economy, and access to the latest ITand telecommunication technology.
First of its kind initiative in North India, HP has joined hands with CU to provide selected students of North India an exclusive placement opportunity. This center is offering placements and exclusive job based training to the students of Northern India.
An advanced communication lab for the students and faculty of Electronics and Communication Engineering. This collaboration will benefit students with live projects, industry exposure leading to domain specific placements.
In this exclusive collaboration, automobile student will benefit greatly via: Company trained faculty will mentor students as per the HMIL standards. Students will be groomed as per the module developed by HMIL Technical Training Department. Certification upon successful completion of Hyundai Certification Course. Students with Hyundai Certification will be given preference during placement process conducted by HMIL.
Computer Aided Engineering center which provides modeling and simulation solutions. The MSC Centre of Excellence lab is equipped with expertise tools, software's and systems for sustainability assessment of products, standard analysis, and sustainable manufacturing. Finite Element Analysis (FEA), MultiBody Dynamics (MBD), MSC Nastran, MSC Patran, LS-Dyna are some of the advanced software application available at the facility.
India’s 1st advance information technology lab focuses on a wide array of projects in exploratory and applied research. Under this academic initiative, CU and IBM are also offering collaborated courses in cloud computing, information security, big data and business analytics.
IMS Academy is a unique simulation based Infrastructure Operations training Practice Oriented Model with fully automated Simulation Lab & Operations Platform. To provide a comprehensive ‘practice’ oriented training to groom students in IMS Technologies and transform them to a good ‘IMS Professionals’  with the required Skills, Competencies, and Essential practices, Tech Mahindra established North India’s first IMS Academy at Chandigarh University Campus. 
VE Commercial Training Center is an advanced automotive skill development center that familiarizes engineering graduates with the latest automotive technologies. This job-oriented initiative includes training by senior functionaries from VE, real time projects and expert sessions to impart students with the right level of skills and aptitude. Students are offered placements during the final semester upon successful completion of the training.
Oracle Academy advances undergraduate and post-graduate Computer Science programs with new global offerings. Under this academic initiative, the students are made to work on Open Source technologies that offers access to latest software such MySQL, Oracle Linux, GlassFish, BlueJ, Eclipse and many more. 
Unisys Academic Alliance offers a unique opportunity to students to work on Unisys technologies and resources to bring to life innovative ideas and concepts. It gives access to Unisys Proprietary Software/Open Source Technologies such as Unisys ClearPath MCP/OS 2200 technologies, ClearPath e-Portal, Business Information Server (BIS), Agile Business Suite, etc. It also gives students the experience of working alongside some of the best minds in the industry. 
VMware IT Academy enables instructors at academic institutions to deliver authorized VMware courses in a variety of settings. Students can jump-start their career and VMware knowledge with coursework through a global network of colleges and universities, and through online certification opportunities, hands-on labs, and other VMware learning resources.
BotLab was started in the year 2017 with the objective of developing an attitude of Automation in children. BotLab is an institute that delivers education in Robotics and Automation with the vision of making children future ready for new opportunities and to stand against threats posed by rapid technical development in the field of automation.
In India, Bosch is a leading supplier of technology and services in the areas of Mobility Solutions, Industrial Technology, Consumer Goods, and Energy and Building Technology. Additionally, Bosch has, in India, the largest development center outside Germany, for end to end engineering and technology solutions.
HRI-EU is our people with their individuality and creativity, not more and not less. We are always interested in new ideas and challenging minds. We work in friendly, international and highly motivated teams respecting each other’s strength and weaknesses.

SAP stands for Systems, Applications, and Products in Data Processing (Anwendungen und Produkte in der Datenverarbeitung in German). SAP was founded in 1972 in Walldorf, Germany and now has offices around the world. 
Cloud computing is when you access computing services—like servers, storage, networking, software—over the internet (“the cloud”) from a provider like Azure. For example, instead of storing personal documents and photos on your personal computer’s hard drive, most people now store them online: that is cloud computing.
We’re the world’s leading provider of enterprise open source solutions, using a community-powered approach to deliver high-performing Linux, cloud, container, and Kubernetes technologies. We help you standardize across environments, develop cloud-native applications, and integrate, automate, secure, and manage complex environments with award-winning support, training, and consulting services.
Sustainable Innovation Lab (SILAB) is a consultancy focused on ‘innovation for sustainability’. The Lab is a group of experienced professionals that have particular expertise in business sustainability, climate change and cleantech issues. Solid experience has been built in electronics, building and construction sectors in Europe, Asia and North America. Key strengths are the team’s multi-disciplinary skills, longstanding experience, international know-how and access to global networks.
Metal Building Software is a Software Program that does the complete design, detailing, costing and drafting of steel framed metal buildings. Our clients range in size from doing less than $1.5 million to over $360 million in steel volume annually.
Infor is a multi-national enterprise software company, headquartered in New York City, United States. Infor focuses on business applications for organizations delivered via cloud computing as a service
STruechip, the Verification IP specialist, is a leading provider of Design and Verification solutions – which help ​you, accelerate your design, lowering the cost and the risks associated with the development of your ASIC, FPGA and SOC. Truechip is a privately held company, with a global footprint and sales coverage across North America, Europe and Asia.
Fittingly, it was a customer who, in 2012, first saw the immense possibilities for us in the fledgling RPA market. “We’ve been using your software to automate processes. Come take a look.”
We did, and our eyes were opened. (This is yet another reason we’re fanatical about listening to our clients.)
Our strengths make us uniquely suited to meet the changing dynamics in the industrial and automotive markets. Our business model is built on four competitive advantages that differentiate us and allow us to grow, generate and return cash to shareholders:
Don Bosco Institute of Technology (DBIT), Mumbai, will be extending support and collaboration with FOSSEE, IIT Bombay. This association and involvement will help the faculty members and students to upgrade their knowledge and develop expertise in Free/Open Source Software (FOSS). 
In the Android Developer Fundamentals course, you learn basic Android programming concepts and build a variety of apps, using the Java programming language. You start with Hello World and work your way up to apps that schedule jobs, update settings, and use Android Architecture Components.
CE Advanced Computing Technologies 
EMC² Academic Alliance offers a unique ‘open’ information infrastructure curriculum that focuses on technology concepts and principle applicable to any vendor environment, enabling students to develop highly marketable knowledge and skills required in today's evolving IT industry. It also offers services such as online faculty community with teaching resources and networking forum along with comprehensive instructor material including: Course Slide, Facilitator Guide, Students Exercise and case study in the form of live project. 
Glass Academy Foundation is an industry endorsed certification program cum elective course especially designed to provide the students of Architecture & Engineering with a platform and the opportunity to learn the latest trends on Glass Architecture & Design and Glass Facade Engineering.
Chandigarh University and Therapeutics India, Mumbai have joined hands as collaborative research partners to undertake a research project on herbal honey. In this, the trace analysis of antibiotics in honey is done to ensure the purity of the product.
Ananta Drugs Pvt. Ltd is a manufacturer and supplier of pharmaceuticals formulation, painkillers, antibiotics, anti vitamins and anti oxidants. Research collaboration with Ananta Drugs has helped us develop joint research project in which our pharmacy students perform an analytical research on a range of drugs to gain real time expertise.
To introduce students with emerging innovations and trends in the horticulture industry, Chandigarh University has joined hands with Punjab State Horticulture Nursery. As a part of this initiative, our students often visit State Horticulture Nursery to gain practical exposure and expert insight on varied modules, while getting familiar with vivid varieties of medicinal plants.
Chandigarh University and Helios Pharmaceuticals, with a mutual desire to undertake research education have stepped into MoU. Under this MoU, the students are catered with myriad of learning opportunities through R & D projects, industrial visits, expert sessions, hands-on exposure, etc.
Chandigarh University with intent to make its students career ready in the context of research has signed MoU with Chandigarh Agritech Pvt. Ltd. Comprising of Research Product Development for herbal tea drops, both parties entering this MoU plans research, collaborative projects to anticipate a continuing effort towards manufacturing applications.
Cox and Kings is one of the oldest and most renowned of travel agency in the world. Our alliance with them gives our student an added advantage to train under their expert and professional guidance.
IHG Academy provides students opportunities in employment and skill development in one of the world’s largest hotel companies. It includes giving hands-on work experience and professional conducted programs.
CU has joined hands with TAJ Hotels - Chandigarh. This MOU aims to provide our students with the best of training and guidance from one of the best hotel organization in the world.
This MoU between Chandigarh University and Helix Lab cooperatively promote the university's commitment towards research, innovation and improvement. The alliance has been forged to attain several milestones in terms of research, emerging innovations, practical training, internship programs and more.
Ligare Aviation has signed MOU under which state-of-the-art Tourism Lab has been set up, industry-academic certification programs and IATA certification course are also offered to our students.
Molecular Diagnostics & Research Laboratories offers opportunity to the MLT students to undertake Collaborative Diagnostics Training and Research. It provides insightful learning experience to our students by making them familiar with molecular biology and its equipments such as micro centrifuge, conventional PCR, RT, electrophoresis unit, Bio-safety cabinet, auto clave, ELISA reader etc.
USB and Piramal Foundation have joined hands to produce replicable solutions to some of our nation’s most pressing challenges. As a part of this MoU, CU in association with Piramal launches social development schemes in Punjab for improving women health, children education etc. This initiative facilitates our students by getting them placed in social sector and carry out steps for poverty alleviation. 
MoU with Bajaj Capital Limited is an exclusive accord in which our students get groomed extensively for six months by the team of Bajaj Capital for careers in areas of wealth management and investment banking. Under this initiative, all students (MBA and BBA/ B.Com) get a chance to undergo Induction Program, from wherein the shortlisted students pursue training with Bajaj Capital.
Chandigarh University and IIM, Bangalore have stepped into MoU to offer a few courses at Undergrad (BBA/BCom/ LLB/Media/ Hotel Management/Others) as well as Grad level (MBA - all disciplines) on blended mode (MOOCS +Blended). This will be step towards adopting MOOCS as per of UGC directives to elevate the learning and temperament of students through appropriate joint learning activities such as Faculty development programs, Symposium, Seminars, Management Development Programs and more.
Realizing the need to build an interface between Academia and Healthcare Industry, Chandigarh University and IVY Hospital have joined hands to develop a high degree of technical, conceptual and analytical skills among the aspirants. Under this research association, MLT students are made to undergo professional hospital training through R & D projects, lab oriented practical training, consultancy work, etc. with IVY team, which makes them learn the emerging innovations and trends of the real time healthcare industry.
Flywings Simulator Training Centre (FWSTC) and CU have joined hands to provide exclusive training and placement opportunities to tourism students interested specifically in aviation. Under this partnership, students will be provided insight and technical knowledge in airline and airport management operations. Apart from expert sessions, students will participate in workshops on Cabin crew and flight procedures. 
Oniosome Research Center is a provider of market research service, pharma products & training services. Chandigarh University and Oniosome Research Center have inked a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to provide professional training to B.Pharma students in the field of Quality Assurance. The initiative is directed toward imparting proficiency through R & D projects, practical training, seminars and conferences, internship and apprenticeship, etc.
Chandigarh University NH-05 Chandigarh-Ludhiana Highway, Mohali, Punjab (INDIA)
Chandigarh University, Panjab (CU) is the Best University in
                            Punjab and North India that offers various Undergraduate and Post graduate Courses like B.Tech, BCA, BBA, HMCT, B.Com, LLB, B.Arch, MBA, M.Tech, B.Com, M.Com, Journalism and MCA at an affordable fees in Chandigarh, India. Apply Now at India's Best Private University in Punjab, Chandigarh which provides top placements.
© All rights reserved 2024
Grab The Golden Opportunity To Avail of Upto Scholarship Worth Rs. 170 Cr.

Visiting
                                                                Scholars:
Being a research intensive university, Chandigarh University develops cutting edge projects at international.
Nobel laureate, India
Nobel laureate, Bangladesh
Nobel laureate, Nigeria
Nobel laureate, USA
Nobel laureate, France
Nobel laureate, USA
Opportunity to incubate at CU-TBI
Seed Money
Investors
Showcase your business idea in front of private & national banks
Chandigarh University focuses and promotes the culture of 'Creating Jobs', it stimulates and nurtures inquisitive minds to shape their ideas in actual businesses.
Chandigarh University is a full-fledged university established by the Punjab State Legislature and is recognized by University Grants Commission under Section 2(f) with the right to confer degrees as per Section 22(1) of the UGC Act, 1956.
Chandigarh UniversityNH-95 Chandigarh-Ludhiana Highway,Mohali, Punjab (INDIA)
© All rights reserved 2019-20

CU
                                                                Global Management Review:
Offered in Batch 2023-24
Highest Package Offered
Highest Package Offered
The Key to Skill
                                                    Development and Innovation.
Patents since inception have been filed by
                                                    Chandigarh University
Open Electives are offered by Chandigarh
                                                    University
have been kept as a reserve by Chandigarh
                                                    University for Research & Innovation Projects
Students from Chandigarh University have been
                                                    hired by Mindtree - Highest in India
To encourage research and provide an opportunity for researchers, Chandigarh University publishes the blind peer-reviewed research journal "CU Global Management Review" (CUGMR) with an ISSN No. 2349-1078 (Print). The CUGMR works to promote and disseminate information in the field of Social Science. The journal encourages academics and corporate practitioners to contribute research papers, articles, review articles, and case studies. Journal invites manuscripts on unique and innovative practices adopted by the management people across the globe.
The journal has consistently published a wide array of articles, research papers, and scholarly contributions from 2011 to the present, establishing itself as a reputable source of knowledge and fostering intellectual discourse within its field. The journal is indexed in various database such as ASI, COSMOS, SIS and Eurasian Scientific Journal Index.
The journal publishes original research papers/articles/book reviews and case studies by academicians, business and government contributors on strategies, tools and technologies for management practices. The journal has created a distinctive place in the field of management and has been widely recognized by the scholars and thinkers as a valued medium for sharing their ideas and experience.
Why Publish with CU Global Management Review?
Web Address:  https://www.cuchd.in/usb/business-management/manuscript-evaluation-form.php
Email Id:  cuglobalmgtreview@cumail.in
With more than 100+ Bachelors, Masters, and Doctoral programs to choose from, CU is one of the highly preferred destinations for International Students.
Career Guide 2024
Apply to view report
Signup
Apply for CUCET(Eligibility and Scholarship Test)
Admission
Sign up or Register for CUCET with basic details (Name, Email ID, Mobile No., State, Gender and Password). Your Email ID will act as your Username for the portal while the password will be set by you upon registration.
On successful registration, you will receive the confirmation message on your registered contact number and Email. Use the Username and Password to Login to your CUCET Account.
After successfully creating your candidate profile for CUCET, you can proceed with choosing the Date for your examination. Complete your profile by logging into your CUCET account and choose an examination date as per your convenience and preference.
You become eligible for admission into Chandigarh University after clearing the CUCET examination. Following your attempt at CUCET, the result will shortly be intimated, based on which you can submit your application for admission and avail merit-based scholarship.
Stay Fearless And Get Ready To Conquer Your Coursework. According to the U.S Bureau of Labor Statistics, the total employment is projected to grow by 165.4 million over the 2020–30 decade, which means an increase of 11.9 million jobs.
Chandigarh University NH-05 Chandigarh-Ludhiana Highway, Mohali, Punjab (INDIA)
Chandigarh University, Panjab (CU) is the Best University in
                            Punjab and North India that offers various Undergraduate and Post graduate Courses like B.Tech, BCA, BBA, HMCT, B.Com, LLB, B.Arch, MBA, M.Tech, B.Com, M.Com, Journalism and MCA at an affordable fees in Chandigarh, India. Apply Now at India's Best Private University in Punjab, Chandigarh which provides top placements.
© All rights reserved 2024
Grab The Golden Opportunity To Avail of Upto Scholarship Worth Rs. 170 Cr.

Technology Business
                                                                Incubator (TBI):


Innovation
                                                                & Entrepreneurship Development Cell (IEDC):

                                Entrepreneurship & IPR Cell was established in 2014 and started working on patenting the ideas of the students. University also started funding the student’s projects for prototyping. The initial amount given to the students was 25 thousand. After looking at the high participation level of the student’s university applied for the Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development cell (IEDC) in the year 2015 and got a grant of 55 Lacs from Department of Science and Technology for a period of 5 years. The scheme facilitates the student with financial support from the university. Under this initiative the students had to submit their proposal for prototyping and after the scrutiny if the proposal found suitable they were getting an amount of INR 1 Lac for prototyping. 
DST allowed a maximum of 5 projects per year but university management sanctioned additional 10 Lacs per year and maximum sanctioned project numbers has been increased to 15.  In the first two years 14 prototypes were built by the students and more than 40 patents were filed. 
Encouraged by this outstanding performance of the students, the University established Chandigarh University Technology Business Incubator (CUTBI) at Chandigarh University through its own funding.
The Technology Business Incubator is also in sync with university vision of being internationally renowned and respected institution imparting excellent education and training based upon the foundation of futuristic research and innovations. In the year 2016-2017 NSTEB (National Entrepreneurship Board) and DST (Department of Science & Technology) sanctioned a grant of 4.12 crore for the Technology Business Incubator. Under CU-TBI there are 39 Startups got incubated and 5 startups pass out. The major Activities organized by the cell in the past years are as follows:-


01
Establishment of Entrepreneurship cell
2013
02
Establishment of IPR Cell
2014
03
Establishment of IEDC (Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development Cell)
2015
04
IIT Bombay- Pre Eureka Workshop
16th September 2015
05
Entrexcellence 2015 (Business Plan Competition)
19th October 2015
06
Establishment of CU-TBI
2016
07
CAB visit to CU-TBI and Investor meet 2016
19th& 20th  March 2016
08
EDC Awareness Lecture - Astra Trehan
14th September 2016
09
EFFECTUS 2016- A Sole Platform for Diverse & BIG Entrepreneurship Ideas
15th& 16th Sept. 2016
10
Awareness camp cum Inauguration of MCSSAN COMPANY OR WCarPs APP
24th Nov. 2016
11
Grant for CU-TBI from NSTEDB DST
2017
12
Visit of Prof. (Dr.) Mohammad Yunus Nobel laureate to the CUTBI
8th  January 2017
13
Promoting the Spirit of Entrepreneurship amongst Youth! (Entrepreneurship Awareness Lecture by Dr.Sujit Banerjee)
22ndFebruary,2017
14
Awareness camp cum Inauguration of the EXPERT COMMUNITY (TEC) first startup
22ndFebruary,2017
15
CAB visit to CU-TBI and Investor meet 2017
18th& 19th  March 2017
16
INVESTORS MEET MR. KIM COPPEN
13th April 2017
17
EFFECTUS 2017 (400 Startups participated)
29th Sept. 2017
18
CAB visit to CU-TBI and Investor meet 2018
17th& 18th March 2018
19
Interaction with successful entrepreneur “My Story”
16th April 2018
20
Annual Meet CU-TBI 2017
27th April 2018
21
Entrepreneurship Awareness Camp
18th July 2018
1
DIKSHA
FITOUT
2
SHIVANGI
SHWT+
3
MONIKA
CIRCLES
4
BROUNIKA GREWAL    
VERIFY D
5
PRANCEY CHAUHAN
PROVISE
6
SHOMYA THAKUR
TEC AND PRENZA
7
DIKSHA PRIYA
TRI BIOMETRIC
8
LALITA
HELPCARD
 
Opportunity to incubate at CU-TBI
Seed Money
Investors
Showcase your business idea in front of private & national banks
Chandigarh University focuses and promotes the culture of 'Creating Jobs', it stimulates and nurtures inquisitive minds to shape their ideas in actual businesses.
Chandigarh University is a full-fledged university established by the Punjab State Legislature and is recognized by University Grants Commission under Section 2(f) with the right to confer degrees as per Section 22(1) of the UGC Act, 1956.
Chandigarh UniversityNH-95 Chandigarh-Ludhiana Highway,Mohali, Punjab (INDIA)
© All rights reserved 2019-20

Policies &
                                                                Strategies:
Certainly, Strong independent universities are vital partners in achieving common goals for governments, businesses, and civil society. These cooperation and partnerships are critical in promoting and implementing the SDGs in India and around the world. Chandigarh University is one of the major players in soft diplomacy because they allow people-to-people communication by one mean or another.  For example, thousands of mobile students travel borders to learn about different cultures and to help their hosts understand their own countries. Similarly, researchers from all around the world collaborate to build networks and develop the know-how required to sustain global innovation.
In the context of education, Chandigarh University outlines sustainable development as the ability for students to acquire the knowledge, understanding, skills, and attributes necessary to work and live in a way that protects environmental, social, and economic well-being for current and future generations. Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) isn't a distinct subject, discipline, objective for higher education or about the environment only. Conversely, Chandigarh University believes that ESD will thrive when it is integrated into university culture and strategy, embedded in learning and teaching, linked to other goals such as employability, internationalization, and enterprise, and linked to community-based learning
Opportunity to incubate at CU-TBI
Seed Money
Investors
Showcase your business idea in front of private & national banks
Chandigarh University focuses and promotes the culture of 'Creating Jobs', it stimulates and nurtures inquisitive minds to shape their ideas in actual businesses.
Chandigarh University is a full-fledged university established by the Punjab State Legislature and is recognized by University Grants Commission under Section 2(f) with the right to confer degrees as per Section 22(1) of the UGC Act, 1956.
Chandigarh UniversityNH-95 Chandigarh-Ludhiana Highway,Mohali, Punjab (INDIA)
© All rights reserved 2019-20

